The Industrial Revolution was a time period in which England made incredible advancements in technology. However, some might say that the costs made to achieve this goal were too great to just brush off.
Some might say that the Industrial Revolution did make life better. People may say this because the Liverpool and Manchester railway lines were twice as quick at transporting goods than by road and therefore they improved the quality of fresh goods delivered into small towns. This makes life better in the Industrial Revolution because the quality of food in the small towns will be better and therefore the life quality would’ve been better. Another reason why life improved during the Industrial Revolution is that Joseph Farrington wrote a diary in 1801 and stated that the children looked ‘in general very healthy’. This shows that life improved in the Industrial Revolution because, even if children were used as workers, they were still treated properly. Another reason that life improved during the Industrial Revolution is that children were encouraged to go to the factories by their parents because it would bring more money for the family. This shows that life improved during the Industrial Revolution because the more factories were being created, the more factories that were being created, the more money that was being brought in for the family. The final reason that life improved during the industrial revolution is that, in 1811, the journey from London to Brighton took 6 hours and 1 pound by stage coach but 2 hours and 4 shillings by train. This shows that life improved during the Industrial Revolution because transport was greatly improved and therefor made the daily commute to work would be simpler and it would make it easier to visit relatives or communicate with others. These reasons show that life did largely improve during the Industrial Revolution mostly because of transport.
However, some people may disagree with this opinion and say that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution. People may think this because children often suffered injury, disease and sometimes even death and in 1831, one of the old child workers, Elizabeth Bentley, even went as far as to say that her shoulder became deformed because of the work she was forced to do. This shows that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution because Children suffered tremendously during this time period for what some would call ‘the greater good’. Another reason that people may agree with this statement is because the estimated cost of building the Manchester and Liverpool lines was £300.00. This shows that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution because the amount of money needed was possibly too much for the benefits the people were being given. Another reason that people may say that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution is that after 1834, anyone who wasn’t employed got sent to a local workhouse and was paid minimum wage to do very laborious, time-consuming and dangerous tasks. This shows that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution because if you were unlucky enough to not be employed, you got sent to what most people might consider worse than homelessness. The final reason that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution is that it was found in 1831 that Child workers had to work from 5am to 8pm with only two 30 minute breaks in between. This shows that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution because the child workers were worked for too long and probably didn’t get enough time to rest in between which consequently led to less focus on their jobs, more chances of making mistakes and a higher accident and death rate. These are some of the strong reasons that the Industrial Revolution didn’t improve life for the people during this time period.
Based on the evidence above, it is easy to make the conclusion that life didn’t improve during the Industrial Revolution based on the idea of the children having terrible working conditions and the that the advancements in technology made were not worth it but the fact that the children brought home money for their families, were given and water and were given a shelter rather than just simply lying out on the street shows that the children were given better working conditions than you might think at first glance. Therefore, it is safe to say that life did improve greatly during the Industrial Revolution mostly because the advancements made during this time period also led on to bigger and better things later on.
